in this next set of videos I'd like to
tell you about recommender systems there
are two reasons I had two motivations
but why I wanted to talk about
recommender systems the first is just
that there's an important application of
machine learning over the last few years
occasionally I visit different
technology companies here in Silicon
Valley and I often talk to people
working on machine learning applications
there and so the most people what are
your most important applications of
machine learning or one of the machine
learning applications that you would
most like to get an improvement in the
performance of and one of the most
frequent answer I heard was that there
are many groups up in Silicon Valley now
trying to build better recommender
systems so if you think about what of
the website of the Amazon or what
Netflix or what's eBay or what's up
iTunes genius made by Apple this there
are many websites or systems that try to
recommend new promised views so Amazon
recommends the books to you Netflix try
to recommend movies through and so on
and these sorts of recommender systems
that look at what books you may have
purchased in the past or what movies you
rated in the past but these sorts of
systems that are responsible for today a
substantial fraction of Amazon's revenue
and for computing Netflix the
recommendations that they make to the
users is also responsible for
substantial fraction of the movies
watched by the users and so an
improvement in the performance of a
recommender system can have a
substantial and immediate impact on the
bottom line of many of these companies o
recommender systems is kind of a funny
problem within academic machine learning
so that you could go to an academic
elearning conference the problem of
recommender systems actually receives
you know relatively little attention or
releases of a smallish fraction of what
goes on within academia but if you look
at what's happening many technology
companies the ability to build these
systems seems to be a high priority for
many companies and that's one of the
reasons why I want to talk about it in
response the second reason that I want
to talk about recommender systems is
that as we approach the last few sets of
videos of this class I wanted to talk
about a few of the big ideas in machine
learning
share view also the big ideas in machine
learning and we've already seen in this
class that features are important for
machine learning the features you choose
will have a big effect on the
performance of your learning algorithm
so this is Big Idea machine learning
which is that for some problems
maybe not all problems with some
problems there are algorithms that can
try to automatically learn a good set of
features for you so rather than trying
to hand design your hand code the
features which is mostly what them do so
far there are a few settings where you
might be able to have an algorithm just
learn what features and use and the
recommender systems is just one example
that sort of setting there are many
others but in going through recommender
systems will be able to go a little bit
into this idea of learning the features
and you'll be able to see at least one
example of this I think big idea in
machine learning as well so without
further ado let's get started and talk
about the recommender system problem
formulation as my running example I'm
going to use the modem problem of
predicting movie ratings so here's a
problem imagine that you're a website or
a company that sells or rent some movies
or what have you and so you know Amazon
and Netflix and I think iTunes are all
examples of company I do our examples of
companies that do this and let's say you
let your users rate different movies
using a one to five star rating so using
rate you know something one two three
four or five stars in order to make this
example just a little bit nicer I'm
going to allow the 0 to 5 stars as well
because that just makes some of the math
come out nicer although most of most of
these websites use it one to five stars
view so here I have five movies no love
the last romance forever a few puppies
of love nonstop consciousness sources
the karate and we have four users which
calling your Alice Bob Carol and Dave
with the initials ap C and D call them
users one two three and four so let's
say Alice really likes love at last
embrace that five stars really likes
romance forever grace at five stars she
did not watch two puppies a lot but did
not rate it so we don't
arranging for that and Alice really did
not like non-stop car chases all sources
karate and different user Bob use the to
maybe raise the different sets maybe he
likes love it laws did not to watch
romance forever just as 18400 and maybe
a third user raise the zero did not
watch that 1:05 founder and you know
let's just learn some of the numbers
okay and so just to introduce a bit of
notation this notation be using
throughout I'm going to use nu to denote
the number of users so in this example
and you will be equal to four so the new
subscript stands for users and nm I'm
going to use to denote the number of
movies so here I have five movies so in
M equals five and you know for this
example um I have for this example have
loosely three maybe romantic romantic
comedy movies and three two action
movies and you know if you look at a
small example it looks like Alice and
Bob are giving high ratings to these
romantic comedies or movies about love
and giving very low ratings about the
action movies and for Karen Davis the
opposite right Carol or Dave uses three
info really like the action movies and
during high ratings but don't like the
romance and love type movies as much
specifically in the recommender system
problem we are given the following data
or data comprises following we have
these values are IJ and RR j is 1 if
user J has rated movie I so I use this
rate only some of the movies and so you
know has we don't have ratings with
those movies and whenever R IJ is equal
to 1 whenever user J has rated movie I
we also get the num
get this number of yr J which is the
rating given by user J to movie R and so
y IJ will be a number you know from 0 up
to five depending on the star rating 0
to 5 stars that the user gave that but
the Ruby
so the recommender system problem is
given this data set that has given these
them are our GS and the y I J's to look
through your data and look at all the
movie ratings not missing and to try to
predict what these values of the
question mark should be in this specific
example I have a very small number of
movies in a very small number of users
and so most users have rates in most
movies but in the realistic setting your
users with each of your users may have
grade to only a minuscule fraction of
your movies but look in this data you
have Alice and Bob both like the
romantic movies maybe we think that
Alice would have given this a 5 maybe
with involved with a given dessert 4.5
or some high value whereas we think
maybe caramel David and during these
very low ratings and Dave well if Dave
really likes action movies maybe he
would have given Sorensen courante for
rating or mediafire rating okay and so
the job in developing a recommender
system is to come up with a learning
algorithm that can automatically fill in
these missing values for us so that we
can look at say the movies that the user
has not yet watched and recommend new
movies to that use it to watch you try
to predict what else might be
interesting to a user
so that's the formalism of the
recommender system problem in the next
video we'll start to develop a learning
algorithm to address this problem